[Additional Layer Store] Enable Additional Layer Store to perform registry authentication (#2417)
containers/image: docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md

`credential-helpers`
: An array of default credential helpers used as external credential stores.  Note that "containers-auth.json" is a reserved value to use auth files as specified in containers-auth.json(5).  The credential helpers are set to `["containers-auth.json"]` if none are specified.

`additional-layer-store-auth-helper`

> : A string of helper name. This enables to pass registry credentials to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A string containing the helper binary name. This enables passing registry credentials to an 
```

  Additional Layer Store every time an image is read using the `docker://`

>   transport so that it can access private registries. See the later section for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transport so that it can access private registries. See the 'Enabling Additional Layer Store to access to private registries' section below for
```

Note that a mirror is associated only with the current `[[registry]]` TOML table. If using the example above, pulling the image `registry.com/image:latest` will hence only reach out to `mirror.registry.com`, and the mirrors associated with `example.com/foo` will not be considered.

### Enabling Additional Layer Store to access to private registries

The `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option enables to pass registry
credentials to Additional Layer Store so that it can access private registries.

Additional Layer Store needs to provide a helper binary. This helper binary is
registered to `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option. Every time pulling of

> an image happens, the specified helper binary is executed and receives registry

Reviewer 2: “Every time an image is read using the `docker://` transport”, or something like that:
- c/image doesn’t know about pulling
- `skopeo inspect docker://…` is not a pull, but it _would_ send credentials

Also in the `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option documentation above.

Author: Thanks for the comments. Fixed.

credentials from stdin in the following format.

```json
{
  "image-reference": {
    "username": "username",
    "password": "password",
    "identityToken": "identityToken"

>   }

Reviewer 2: It’s completely unclear from this syntax which of the strings are constants and which of them are variables — especially when “image-reference” is not a constant. I don’t know what’s a good way to do that here, either avoid ``` and format explicitly using the man-page `constants` and _variables_ syntax, or maybe use `"$username"` to indicate that it is a variable?

What is the format of “image-reference”? “$repo{:$tag|@$digest}" would be a bit more explicit.

Is it, long-term, guaranteed that there will be only one “image-reference”? Or can the map contain multiple entries and should the helpers be ready to accept that? I guess the latter, otherwise the `map[]` format would not make sense.

---

Thinking about the evolution, if any, more:
- Do we need a version number? Probably not, we can define an `additional-layer-store-auth-helper2` field.
- Making the top-level object’s fields directly interpreted as image references means we can’t add any other field to the object in the future. Do we care? Not _urgently_, we can always use …`helper2` with a new format. I also can’t think of any field we might want to add, but that doesn’t mean much.

Author: >  or maybe use `"$username"` to indicate that it is a variable?

> What is the format of “image-reference”? “$repo{:$tag|@$digest}" would be a bit more explicit.

Thanks for the suggestions. Fixed.

> Is it, long-term, guaranteed that there will be only one “image-reference”? Or can the map contain multiple entries and should the helpers be ready to accept that? I guess the latter, otherwise the map[] format would not make sense.

There is no guarantee of "image-reference" being only one. The reason for the image reference not being a field is that I initially tried to make the struct the same format as DockerAuthConfig which is already used in the codebase. But, if needed, it's also ok for me to extend the struct to make `image-reference` one of the fields (not the key of the struct).

> version

>  add any other field to the object in the future

Currently I can’t think of any field we might want to add. Maybe we can `additional-layer-store-auth-helper2` when we need to change the format.

Note that a mirror is associated only with the current `[[registry]]` TOML table. If using the example above, pulling the image `registry.com/image:latest` will hence only reach out to `mirror.registry.com`, and the mirrors associated with `example.com/foo` will not be considered.

### Enabling Additional Layer Store to access to private registries

> The `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option enables to pass registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option enables passing registry
```

> credentials to Additional Layer Store so that it can access private registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials to an Additional Layer Store so that it can access private registries.
```

> Additional Layer Store needs to provide a helper binary. This helper binary is

Reviewer: I think this is what you're getting at

```suggestion
When accessing a private registry via an Additional Layer Store, a helper binary needs to be provided. This helper binary is
```

> registered to `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option. Every time an image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registered via the `additional-layer-store-auth-helper` option. Every time an image
```

is read using the `docker://` transport, the specified helper binary is executed
and receives registry credentials from stdin in the following format.

```json
{
  "$image_reference": {
    "username": "$username",
    "password": "$password",
    "identityToken": "$identityToken"
  }
}
```

The format of `$image_reference` is `$repo{:$tag|@$digest}`.

> Additional Layer Store can use this for accessing to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional Layer Stores can use this helper binary to access the private registry.
```
